Welcome to lesson 4.
So far we have learned the basic principles of radar operation,
then we worked on determining the range,
and upper information about the targets by implementing the FFT techniques.
In this lesson, we will discuss clutter noise,
and look into how it leads to detection failures.
We will learn about the implementation of CFAR technique to
dynamically filter the noise and decrease the rate of false alarms,
and at the end, we will look into how radar
determines the angle of arrival for different targets.
So let's begin. There have been scenarios where cars equipped with
emergency braking systems applied sudden breaks due
to their radar sensing strong reflections of the road surface,
or of any invalid target.
These reflections create false alarm making
the radar considered them as well the targets.
Let's learn how these false positives are generated and how to tackle them.
Radar not only receives reflected signals from the objects of interest,
but also from unwanted objects and the environment.
The back-scatter from these unwanted sources is called as clutter.
These unwanted signals are generally produced by reflections from the ground,
sea, buildings, trees, rain, fog, etc.
It also varies based on the texture.
For example, deserts have low reflectivity,
where as frozen snow has higher reflectivity.
Generally, an absolute noise thresholding is
implemented for radar to reject the signal below threshold value.
But there are issues associated with the absolute threshold.
Let's say if detection threshold is set too high,
there will be few false alarms,
but it will also match well the targets just like the target here at a 125 meters.
If the threshold is set too low,
then it would lead to too many false alarms.
What is false alarm rate?
The false alarm rate is a measure of the presence of
radar target when there is no valid target present.
It is the function of signal to noise ratio of
the target such that higher is the signal to noise ratio,
lower is the false alarm rate.